(From 
"Aquarionics":http://www.aquarionics.com/journal/2003/07/21/Wiki_wiki_wild%2C_wi
ki_wiki_wild_wild_web, 21st July 2003)

About a month ago, I concieved a Project.

Basically, it was when ESR shifted the focus of the Jargon File by changing the 
"J Random Hacker" entry to more reflect his own beliefs. My plan to combat this 
was - and is - to file the whole Jargon File into a Wiki and let the world at 
it. Think an entry is biased? Change it.

All I needed to do was to get it out of the Jargon File format and into 
something that I could import into a wiki. Then I discovered something really, 
really fundermental.

All wikis suck.

In fact, the particular way all these Wiki's sucked was two fold. The first was 
the most important: No existing wiki that I could install on this server could 
import data from an external source. All the ones that backed onto plain text 
files I couldn't - for various reasons - install. All the ones that backed onto 
a mysql database had data structures six feet deep that I couldn't hack my way 
around.

The second reason all wikis suck is the really, really horribly *nasty* text 
formatting that has become standard. ''''this is italic'''' ''''''''this is 
bold'''''''' is a little too baroque, verbose, and nasty for my liking.

This weekend, my project was to play around with "PEAR":http://pear.php.net (The 
PHP equivlient of CPAN, crossed with apt-get. It rocks), for which I needed a 
project. Plus, "Dean Allen":http://www.textism.com has just released "Textile 2 
beta":http://www.textism.com/tools/textile/, the best text-formatting library 
for PHP (and now perl) bar none. Aha, I thought. This will solve several 
problems.

So, this afternoon about 16:00 I started coding my own Wikilike, and now at 1am, 
I've finished the first cut. It uses textile for formatting, it does Wikilike 
things, and it backs on to the Aquarionics User System (currently only used for 
"Forever":/misc/story, so if you had an account on Forever at about 8pm this 
evening - when I copied the database locally - you have an account on the Wiki. 
I haven't gotten around to writing an account creation system for the wiki 
locally yet, so you'll have to be anonymous if you don't).

The current Wiki is up "on my local server":http://aqua.water.gkhs.net/aqWiki, 
it inherantly supports mulitple wiki's per server, but I've still got to put in 
the really cool bits, like the XML-RPC interface, the ability for admins to lock 
pages, and stuff.

And the name? Well, it was done quickly (A Qwiki), it's mine (Aq Wiki) and it's 
slightly sick (Aqw Iki) 

But it's there, it's working, and since I'm working in the morning, I'd better 
head to bed... 